---
layout: default
lang: en-CA
title: PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES Book Two
---

> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES Book Two PART ONE** The Mystery of the
> Egyptian Pyramids
>
> Once upon a time there was a pigeon and that pigeon has two wonderful
> friends. But the pigeon was very curious and, yeah, I know what you're
> thinking, "he isn't supposed to be curious. He's a pigeon! Like the
> ones you see walking around the bus station every day."
>
> But, this pigeon is different! He lives in the jungle and he's very
> curious, and, if you have read Part One, you know what I'm talking
> about!
>
> The pigeon was reading a book again. Yeah, yeah, I know, just like in
> BOOK ONE. But, this book was about the Egyptian pyramids and the book
> said that the legend says that there is a statue of a Golden Egyptian
> Mummy hidden inside the pyramid and whoever finds it will be able to
> discover all the secrets of the ancient Egyptians' lives!
>
> But, if you, the person who is reading this book, were to find that
> Golden Egyptian Mummy, promise me that you will take him and that you
> will write down all the Egyptian facts and take them to a museum, so
> that you can share everything that you have discovered with everybody!
>
> Then the pigeon talked to himself. "What if me and my friends went to
> find that Golden Egyptian Mummy? Then, we could be famous! Then the
> pigeon told his friends all about it and they set sail for Parrot
> Island. The reason they set sail for Parrot Island is because it is
> the home of the Magic Map. When they got to Parrot Island, they asked
> the Magic Map if she wanted to help find the Golden Egyptian Mummy.
>
> The Magic Map said: "I would love to help you find the Golden Egyptian
> Mummy; many people who wanted to find it never found it because it
> takes three friends, because if one person wants to get into the
> pyramid. I know there are lots of doors and secret passage ways to
> open. The doors are actually very heavy because in the time of the
> pyramids, they built them with stone bricks and stone bricks are very
> heavy!"
>
> So the Magic Map told them how to get there and then they sailed (wait
> a minute! I know what you're thinking; where did they sail to? I'll
> get to that in a second. Ok, where was I?). Actually they had no idea
> WHERE they were going to sail to; the Magic Map just told them how to
> get there.
>
> But then they all asked the Magic Map: "But if we don't know where we
> are going, how are we going to get there?' Then the Magic Map said:
> "We are going to Egypt, but I have no idea where in Egypt we are going
> to end up."
>
> Then they sailed to Egypt but they had to go to a river and the ship
> wouldn't fit. So then the Magic Map said: "I know a way to get there.
> We have to ride these minnows." They all said: "What!?" The Magic Map
> said" "Not these ones.'
>
> But the pigeon said: "It doesn't say anything about minnows in my
> book. Oh, I found it! It says right here in this chapter of my book
> about magical minnows. These fish are very powerful, you can ride
> them, they can get really big and they are really fast and they have
> camaflouge."
>
> So the Piggy Said: "Onward to Adventure to ride the minnows!" When
> they went to ride the minnows, the Elephant noticed something. There
> were crocodiles in the river. Then they said: "What are we going to
> do?' And the Elephant said: "You'll find out in Part ....." (No just
> kidding, we're not even close to Part Two!!)
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - Book Two PART ONE PAGE 2** The Mystery of
> the Egyptian Pyramids
>
> So, the Magic Map said: "The crocodiles don't want to hurt us. They
> are just doing their job because they are the guardians of the
> Egyptian pyramids. A long long time ago, there was a pirate named
> Captain Ahoy. He wanted to take the treasure all for himself. And
> another person came along. He wanted to share that information. He
> wanted everybody to know about it.
>
> But Captain Ahoy heard about his plan and he decided to put a spell on
> all the animals so they would protect that treasure and when they
> found it, they would give it to Captain Ahoy. So he put the spell on
> them, and when he did, they never ever found that treasure and it was
> so long ago, Captain Ahoy was lost forever, he never actually undid
> the spell."
>
> (And I know what you're all are thinking. I didn't mention how Captain
> Ahoy was lost forever and you'll found out somewhere in the story but
> I can't tell you where because I haven't made it yet. But you guys are
> reading this after I made it, so you guys will find it.)
>
> So where were we? Alright, The Magic Map told them all about the story
> of Captain Ahoy which we'll get to later. But then the pigeon was
> like" "I think we're forgetting something that was a pretty good story
> about Captain Ahoy but - the crocodiles!!"
>
> And the Pig said: "Oh right, the crocodiles, well, I have good news.
> If you ever read the story by Mo Williams about the Pig playing the
> trumpet, if a pig can play the trumpet, it can do what I just did;
> make a teleportation machine."
>
> So then, they teleported into the Nile River and the Nile River is a
> real river. They teleported on the boat and they teleported the
> minnows too. So then they left their boat, they put their anchor on
> the rock, they went by the Guardian of the Pyramids crocodiles, now
> they just have to get past the other Guardians of the Pyramids -
> monkeys.
>
> But the Elephant knew how to get past the monkeys. He knew how to
> break that spell for the monkeys. If the monkeys stay on that tree,
> they will stay in the spell forever. But today is the day of the Red
> Moon. It's the day where they can go back to real life instead of
> staying in that
>
> spell. When the Red Moon shines, there's an island behind the
> Waterfall of Wishes. And we have to get them on the waterfall and
> everybody knows the way to get them.
>
> Monkeys will always go towards the Golden Banana of Joy. Every day of
> the Red Moon, the power of the Golden Banana of Joy comes out. It
> happens every time. But, it's on that island.
>
> And just because the monkeys will go toward that Golden Banana of Joy
> doesn't mean they won't go towards regular bananas and there's a whole
> trail of banana trees that lead to the Golden Banana of Joy. The only
> way to get them to go there is to distract the tigers.
>
> And I know what you're thinking: "How are they going to distract the
> tigers?" **Find out in Part Two."**
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - Book Two - PART TWO** The Mystery of the
> Egyptian Pyramids
>
> The Magic Map had an idea. The Map Map knew that in the Chinese
> culture they have years of the animals. It's time for a quick fact. In
> the Chinese culture for everybody every year there is a different
> animal. The Chinese believe that when you are born in the year of an
> animal, that you
>
> have things like what the animal has - like 2022 is the 'Year of The
> Tiger' and if you're born in the 'Year of the Tiger', you are brave,
> you get along with people who were born in the 'Year of the Horse' and
> the 'Year of the Dragon'. So things like that.
>
> Anyway, where were we? So the Magic Map herself is a mix of all the
> animals. She has everything that all the animals have. And just
> because she was published in 2023 (I hope!), doesn't mean she was born
> in whatever animal of 2023. She also has the qualities of the Tiger
> and she knew what the perfect thing would be to distract the Tiger.
> Something no tiger could resist; a creature that lives in both Africa
> and Asia, just like the tiger .... To Be Continued .... NOW BACK TO
> THE STORY.
>
> Tigers are really sneaky and because of their stripes, they blend in
> and all tiger's stripes are different. And tigers are a type of
> wildcat. So quick fact about tigers over. And everybody who is reading
> this book, maybe you'll discover something new about the tiger.
>
> So back to the story. And I just thought of an idea about how to
> distract the tigers. Something that these special types of tigers will
> not resist is somebody painting a portrait of them! But the Magic Map
> said: "But who could paint a portrait of them? None of us know how to
> paint?" The Magic Map said: "I'd like to try but nobody taught me how
> and I don't have any hands!"
>
> But then, the Pigeon said: "If you ever read the book by Mo Williams
> where the Pigeon goes to school, there's a page where there's things
> that I'm worried about happening in school and one of them is
> fingerprint messing up my feathers!"
>
> But then the Elephant and Pig said: "We don't know how to paint with
> brushes and stuff, but we're great with finger painting. And the
> reason why is we have these things called hooves." And the elephant
> said" What she meant was we have feet."
>
> And the pig said: "Actually what I meant was I have hooves and you
> have feet. So what we can do is we dip our hooves and feet in the
> paint and we put them in orange paint and make a circle, then add some
> ears, and colour it all in, and then black hoof prints or foot prints,
> and that's the eyes, and that's how we paint a tiger." And the Magic
> Map said: "That sounds great! Here's a canvas and here's some paint.'
>
> And then all the tigers looked at them. They started painting and the
> tigers walked and the monkeys bounced from tree to tree. But those
> monkeys were afraid of water. The pig had an idea. "In the Waterfall
> of Wishes, you can see in the name "wishes". You make a wish. If I
> wished the monkeys would go free of the spell, then the monkeys will
> probably go through the Waterfall of Wishes to the Island."
>
> And so the Pig tried to wish but it turns out she couldn't. There was
> a riddle that she had to figure out the answer to and sing it out
> loud. What is Mozart's name? But she knew this song: "This composers
> name was very long. Can you try it loudly, sing it strong. Johannes
> Chrysos Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was his name." Mozart was his name!
> That was the song that the pig sang and was that the right song? Will
> the pig's wish come true? **Find out in Part Three.**
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - BOOK TWO**
>
> The Mystery of the Egyptian Pyramids
>
> ***Part Three: THE MAGICAL PHOENIX AND THE NEVER ENDING RAINBOW***
>
> The pig didn't know if its wish would come true but suddenly something
> magical appeared. The magical wishing star. The wishing star heard the
> pig's wish. And then the wishing star turned into stardust and
> disappeared. And then piggy's wish came true! The monkeys went through
> the trees and through the Waterfall of Wishes, then onto the Island
> and they were free from the spell!
>
> The monkeys thanked the four friends and told them that they knew
> where the magical flute was. The monkeys told the Magic Map where it
> was and a bunch of magical pictures came on the magical map. The
> pictures showed all the things you need to pass by to get the magical
> flute.
>
> And then they went off to find the magical flute in order to break the
> spell for all creatures. But on the Magic Map it showed how they have
> to find the key to the pyramid where the magic flute hides. And the
> key is hidden inside the unbreakable rocks, which are not so
> unbreakable because there's a special way to break the unbreakable
> rock which is unknown to most creatures. Only the Wind Dragon knows
> how.
>
> They were in the desert in Africa where there are sand storms all the
> time so they know the Wind Dragon is nearby, But then, there was a
> tiny, mini really small sandstorm coming their way but it was getting
> bigger , but then behind it they saw a colourful scaly sparkly,
> magical happy dragon. And they all said: 'WOW!"
>
> The pigeon said that's a very beautiful dragon. But then the dragon
> ROARED! And out of his mouth came .... A magical rainbow, so all the
> friends can understand what the dragon is trying to say - it's called
> a translating bow and any animal that can make a translating bow can
> be understood by any other animal in their own language.
>
> Dragons speak ROAR and every ROAR means a different thing. That Roar
> that the dragon just made when he made that translating bow, it meant
> "Hello". But then the Dragon asked them why were they in the Egyptian
> desert?
>
> And the pigeon answered: "We wanted to find the magical Golden Mummy
> and we also want to break the spell." And then the Dragon said: "If
> you want to break the spell and find the Mummy, you have to cross the
> never-ending rainbow!"
>
> The unbreakable rock and the pyramid are actually right next to each
> other. To cross the rainbow, you have to fly over the rainbow. The
> Pigeon said: "I know the perfect way to fly up there!" The Pigeon and
> the Dragon said it at the same time: "a Phoenix."
>
> And then they both said: "Jinx'.
>
> But then the Dragon said: "To get the Phoenix to fly, you have to sing
> a special song.
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - BOOK TWO**
>
> The Mystery of the Egyptian Pyramids
>
> ***Part Three: THE MAGICAL PHOENIX AND THE NEVER ENDING RAINBOW - Page
> 2***
>
> And then the pigeon started to sing:
>
> *In the sky*
>
> *There's something beautiful*
>
> *With all the colours*
>
> *It's not just a rainbow*
>
> *The Phoenix flies as high as it can see*

*And bringing all those beautiful colours to the sky.*

> *Oh the Phoenix flies over the rainbow*
>
> *With all the colours of the rainbow in its wings*

*And brings joy to the world and when it goes so high*

> *It makes the flowers bloom, it makes the rainbows glow*
>
> *Oh the Phoenix.*
>
> *The Phoenix flies so high just for me and you! Ooooh.*
>
> And then, the Phoenix came and then the Phoenix and the Dragon made a
> double translating bow. The Phoenix said: "Hop On" and all the friends
> hopped onto the Phoenix's back and it soared through the sky. And then
> they flew so far, to the beautiful rainbow but that rainbow was a
> double rainbow.
>
> One of the rainbows led to the Pyramid and one led to the unbreakable
> rock and they went to the rainbow of the unbreakable rock, and it
> turns out, the only way to break that rock was a Phoenix Feather. So
> the Phoenix gave one of her feathers to the Pigeon.
>
> But the Pigeon didn't know how to use the feather to break the
> unbreakable rock. But they needed two feathers, one from the Phoenix
> and one from the Heenotari Bird.
>
> The Heenotari Bird lived on top of the rock right next to the
> unbreakable rock and the Phoenix and the Heenotari Bird talked the
> exact same language. So the Phoenix asked the Heenotari Bird if she
> could give one of her feathers to the Pigeon and she did. And once the
> Pigeon held both of those feathers, the unbreakable rock broke and
> inside was a Golden Key.
>
> They picked up that Golden Key and went to the next rainbow but there
> was a gigantic storm cloud blocking their way. How would they get past
> the storm cloud? The Phoenix couldn't do it; the Heenotari Bird
> couldn't do it. None of them could get past it but all they needed to
> do to move the cloud was to ask the storm cloud, so they did.
>
> The storm cloud was going to move but he was too full of water. But
> luckily the Pigeon had the Hennotari Bird feather and just a tickle
> from one feather can solve any problem. So the Pigeon tickled the
> cloud and the cloud wasn't a storm cloud anymore, it was a regular
> cloud and it moved away.
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - BOOK TWO**
>
> The Mystery of the Egyptian Pyramids
>
> ***Part Three: THE MAGICAL PHOENIX AND THE NEVER ENDING RAINBOW - Page
> 3***
>
> But while it was turning into a regular cloud, the storm cloud
> starting raining so the rainbow got really really slippery and it
> turns out that this rainbow that leads to the pyramid is a rainbow you
> can walk on.
>
> So they slid down the rainbow and found the pyramid but when the got
> to the pyramid, they couldn't find the key hole for the key.
>
> But it turns out that key wasn't for the pyramid. It was for the chest
> where the flute was.
>
> They knew if they got the flute out of the chest and they blew the
> flute, the spell would disappear and the keyhole would appear.
>
> So they unlocked the chest and found the flute.
>
> They blew the flute and then every spell broke.

And they saw the keyhole. The put the key in the keyhole and it fit so
the magical door opened.

> They were inside the pyramid. Everything was made out of gold but they
> knew that there was mysterious Mummies hidden in the pyramid
> protecting all the treasure.
>
> How will they let the mummies know that they don't want to steal the
> treasure and keep it for themselves, that they want to share that
> information and take the mummy to a new museum?
>
> How will they tell them?
>
> How will they find the Mummy?
>
> How?
>
> **You will have to be patient and find out in Part Four!**
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - BOOK TWO**
>
> The Mystery of the Egyptian Pyramids **PART FOUR: The Mysterious
> Hieroglyphs of the Pyramids**
>
> And then the friends noticed it was really bright in the pyramid
> because of all the gold. The Pigeon said: "Some of this gold must be
> the Golden Mummy statue but it's not going to be easy to find it.
>
> So the friends went through the tunnel but then once they finished one
> tunnel there were five other tunnels. The Magic Map said: "One of
> these tunnels will lead us to the Golden Mummy statue and all the
> others will lead us to a different Kingdom."
>
> The Elephant said: But which one?"
>
> But then a mysterious voice said: "Well maybe I could tell you. Oh
> yeah, and you over there, polish my crown! The voice that said that
> was the Mummy King. He had the power to control all of the animals,
> especially the one with the translating bows.
>
> But the Mummy King said: "If you want me to show you which tunnel, you
> have to answer a riddle. What day is the rainbow extra bright?"
>
> The Magic Map said: "Well the rainbow would probably be extra bright
> on the day that .... ?"
>
> The Pigeon said: "Oh I know - what day of the week? Sunday, Monday,
> Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Wait none of those are going to
> work but the Pigeon said: "Hmmmm Sun-day is the day that's extra
> bright so the answer to this riddle is Sunday."
>
> Then the Mummy King said: "Riddle Sticks! You figured it out. It's
> that one right there on the right."
>
> So the friends went off to that tunnel but once they entered the
> tunnel, there were three more tunnels they could go to. But there were
> 3 friends so if they all split up at least one of them would find the
> magical Mummy Mummy Mummy. The Pigeon's voice echoed across the
> tunnels. So they all went off to a different tunnel, but then,
> something strange happened.
>
> They realized all the tunnels were connected so they saw each other
> again. But, only one problem. All of these tunnels lead to the same
> place but they don't know where they are going to end up.
>
> "We might end up at the Sky Kingdom, the Crystal Kingdom or all the
> other Kingdoms or the Mummy." But then the Pigeon saw a hole in the
> roof of the pyramid. The Pigeon said: "we can all go up there and walk
> across, then we can see the view of all the land around us and we can
> see all the tunnels and where they lead to. So the pigeon flew up
> there but all the others couldn't fly. "Oh right, you guys can't get
> up here."
>
> But then, a magical bird came. The Heenotari Bird came and flew all
> the friends up there. Then they saw the whole view. They saw the view
> of all the Kingdoms but the Mummy army was right behind them!
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - BOOK TWO**
>
> The Mystery of the Egyptian Pyramids **PART FOUR: The Mysterious
> Hieroglyphs of the Pyramids Page 2**
>
> But the Mummy army couldn't talk to each other when they were far
> away. They don't have phones, computers, anything that they can use to
> talk to each other.
>
> Quick fact: a long long time ago, people didn't have any of these
> things to talk to each other. Now back to the story.
>
> The pigeon knew how the Mummies communicated when they were at far
> distances. They used hieroglyphs.
>
> The Magic Map knew hieroglyphs so the Magic Map changed what she
> looked like and everything she wanted to say was written in
> hieroglyphs.
>
> And then they gave the Magic Map to the Mummies and the Mummies said:
> "OK" and then they showed them the magic passageway to the Golden
> Mummy.
>
> They were going the wrong way the whole time.
>
> Now they can find the Golden Egyptian Mummy.
>
> If you want to figure out how, **wait until PART FIVE.**
>
> **PIGEON MYSTERY SERIES - BOOK TWO**
>
> The Mystery of the Egyptian Pyramids **PART FIVE**
>
> Then something mysterious showed up. It was a Dragon. That Dragon
> could understand any language and she could write any language too but
> she could only speak "Dragonese" like roar, Roar, ROAR!
>
> But she could make "translating bows" (like rainbows) - a rainbow that
> animals can make that anybody can understand. She told them the
> Mummies are just trying to protect the treasure. "They know that you
> have been coming looking for it."
>
> The Mummies read the Magic Map and they understood but they still
> couldn't let them find the treasure because it was their job to
> protect the treasure.
>
> The only way that they could find the treasure was to talk to the
> Mummy King, so they went to the Mummy King and the Pigeon said: "We
> don't want to take the treasure for ourselves, we want to share it.
> The Mummy King said: "OK, you may go find the treasure. My Mummy army
> will help you. So they went to find it but there was an ancient
> passageway; there were tons of them.
>
> One of the ancient passageways had the Golden Mummy statue inside but
> they couldn't find any passageways, but remember, they saw the paths
> that leads to all the kingdoms and one of them leads to the Kingdom of
> Ancient Treasure and that Kingdom they needed to go to.
>
> So they went to the Kingdom of the Ancient Treasure and they found the
> Golden Egyptian Mummy. But it was locked up in a cage and they
> couldn't get to it. Now they didn't know what to do.
>
> The pigeon said: "I have an idea. I'll use one of my feathers and put
> it through the keyhole like it's the key, then the cage might open."
> The pigeon took one of his feathers and did just that and it opened!
>
> The Mummy inside was shiny and it was really big and it looks friendly
> but there was ancient writing written on it and it said something in
> hieroglyphs.
>
> The Magic Map read it and it said: "This Mummy is no ordinary Mummy,
> it's a magical one dot dot dot. The Pig said: "But what else?" The
> Pigeon said: "I guess we're going to find out."
>
> They went to the museum and showed the statue to the Museum people but
> the Museum had something. It was a Silver statue that connected to the
> Golden statue, so they connected it.
>
> One of them was gold and one of them was silver, but they were
> together. They realized what the dot dot dot meant. It said: When you
> put us together, this Mummy has the power to do anything! That's why
> ... NOBODY has every found it. And then so many people came to the
> museum to see it.
>
> Now they have all this incredible power. What will they do with it?
>
> **Find out in Book 3** of the PIGEON MYSTERY series: "THE VALLEY OF
> JUSTICE"
